Welcome back to our study on the book Proverbs.
And we are in chapter seven.
And I'm going to read from verses 10 to verse, let's see, verse 10 to 21.
All right, let's go.
And behold, a woman comes to meet him dressed as a harlot and cunning of heart.
She is boisterous and rebellious.
Her feet do not remain at home.
She is now in the street, now in the squares, and lurks by every corner.
So she seizes him and kisses him.
And with a brazen face, she says to him, I was due to offer peace offerings.
Today I have paid my vows.
Therefore I have come out to meet you, to seek your presence earnestly.
And I have found you.
I have spread my couch with coverings with colored linens from Egypt.
I have sprinkled my bed with my
Allows and cinnamon come, let us drink our fill of love until morning.
Let us delight ourselves in caresses for my husband is not at home.
And he has gone on a long journey.
He has taken a bag of money with him at the full moon.
He will come home with many with her many persuasions.
She entices him with her flattering lips.
She seduces him.
Let's go to the Lord in prayer.
Father, I thank you for your word.
And I pray, dear God, that you would use it in the heart of the parents and the young people who are listening to these lessons.
Father, the world is so deeply corrupt
so spiritually dark, please help these children to know the truth, to trust in Christ, and then not to live as the foolish, but to live as wise, knowing what the will of God truly is.
Father, help us now in Jesus' name.
Amen.
We've looked thus far at this young man and we've seen that his character is what determines his actions.
He truly is a disobedient fool.
And so he acts like it and he draws near to danger.
Now I said disobedient fool, but we could add one more thing there.
He is extraordinarily proud because he is
following his own desire rather than following the clear principles of God's Word.
And also because this is written by a parent to a son, he's taking his own wisdom over that of his father's.
Both of those things are extremely deadly.
And so we've looked at his character and the results of that character, which is sinful actions leading to danger and his own ruin.
Now we're going to look at the character of the woman who comes out
to meet him.
Now, I want to read something for you here because this is talking about a woman who is not faithful to her husband and is not faithful to her children and is definitely not faithful to her God.
And there are many things in here that deal with that.
But because of those who will be listening to the series, what I want to do instead of pressing attention on that theme, to take her as an example of the world.
And when I say the world, I'm not talking about the globe, I'm talking about that the system of this age, everything in this world that is contrary to the will of God,
everything that influences God's people to the contrary of his will.
And so it's this system of belief, of action, of even rules that are all contrary to the word of God.
It also includes attitudes of pride as opposed to humility.
And so we're going to look at her
But in this woman, we're going to see the world and the way the world comes at Christians and tries to draw them away from God and from God's will.
So the woman's character.
Now, I want to read, although this text refers to a woman who is unfaithful to her husband and family, we will look at it in a wider context as a reference to this fallen world with its hostility toward God.
and its hostility toward his people.
Now, let's read verse 10.
And behold, a woman comes to meet him, dressed as a harlot and cunning of heart.
Now, she is dressed in a way to attract, to attract.
And I've written here, the world's outward appearance hides its inner
reality.
What she is doing demonstrates that she has a corrupt heart and she has a sinful intentions, but she dresses it up in beautiful, attractive, outward clothing.
And I've written here like the unfaithful woman, the world is dressed to attract you and to tempt you.
But inside, there is moral rot
and ugliness, okay?
You could say it this way.
The road to hell is paved with beautiful propaganda of excitement, of beauty, of entertainment, of pleasure.
But when you get to the actual product, it's nothing but eternal torture.
Do you see that?
There are even songs about, you know, I'm on the highway,
to hell and all the people in the concert are singing it and they're happy.
All my friends will be there too.
That's the propaganda.
The reality is so horrific that you and I could not even begin to comprehend it.
Let's just put it this way.
When we talk about heaven, we have to be very measured in our language because the Bible doesn't tell us everything, but also we have to be measured because of this.
It's incomprehensible.
That is, you can't even begin to conceive of what it's like.
The same can be said of hell as the heavens that God is creating for us, preparing for us, as their beauty is beyond our understanding.
So the torments of hell are beyond our understanding.
Now this is a very common thing that we see in the Bible that someone comes to God's people as attractive, as beautiful, but inside they're rotten.
So let's look at an example in its Jesus with the Pharisees and it's found in Matthew 23, 27.
Listen to what Jesus says about the religious hypocrites.
He says, woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites.
For you are like whitewashed tombs, which on the outside appear beautiful, but inside they are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness.
They're full of rotten, putrid, bone and flesh.
Now on the outside they're expecting
spectacular.
Some of them are made out of alabaster.
Some of them of ivory.
Some of them are covered in gold.
They look so beautiful, so clean.
But inside, there's a rotting corpse.
I remember one time I was in a very, very bad place and some really bad things had happened.
And I was going through a cemetery and someone had gone in there.
and pulled out many of the caskets from the mausoleums, from the place where they had them guarded.
And they flipped them over and were robbing things out of these caskets.
And you saw all these dead bodies all over the ground, or part of the lid removed from the casket.
And within, it was a beautiful casket, a beautiful mausoleum made out of marble.
but poured out of them were just these, well, it was like a nightmare.
And that's what Jesus is saying, that these religious people who were false, and they were false teachers and false prophets, and he said, outward, you look beautiful, inward, deadly, rot.
And it's the same thing with this woman.
She is dressed to attract, but what's inside those beautiful pieces of clothing,
is a very immoral, dangerous and ugly person.
Jesus said this in Matthew 7, 15 and 16, be aware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves.
You will know them by their fruits.
So this lady comes out to greet this young man and to attract him.
What kind of fruit does she have?
We were already sees she's abandoned her husband and abandoned her children.
She doesn't care about them.
She most certainly isn't going to care about that boy.
She cares about herself.
And that's the way the world is.
And we'll see that in a little greater depth very, very soon.
Okay.
So the first thing that we learned what let's go back.
Let me look on my note.
I want to get it right.
The world's outward appearance.
hides its inner reality.
Secondly, the world is cunning.
Look at verse 10.
And behold, a woman comes to meet him, dressed as a harlot, and cunning of heart.
Now, cunning, that was kind of a, you know, different word is used in the Hebrew, but with regard to Satan, when he appears in the garden, the snake, more clever, more shrewd, young person.
You may think that you are, you know, you're the man about town or the woman about town or you're a person of the world that you understand things.
There are people that can manipulate you and twist you into so many knots and get you going in such wrong directions and you have no spiritual or mental power to stand against them right now.
No wisdom to dissect their lies and expose them.
And if I can say that about people, then how much more can I say that about Satan himself?
You are no match for how cunning he is.
You're no match for the world.
I mean, sometimes when I watch the news and I see that an event happened and how they twist it into something completely different.
It's brilliant.
It's evil, but it's brilliant.
And most people, they cannot discern the error, the lie.
Now, when it says here that she is cunning of heart, literally it's kept secret of heart.
Now, what are we saying?
The world just like this woman has a secret intent.
She has hidden motives.
The motives and her intentions seem so positive, but in the end, we'll see that they're completely the opposite.
And let me give you a few examples.
She does not want to give herself in sacrificial love to this young man for the benefit of him, but she wants to use him for her own pleasure, even though it will destroy him.
She's tempting him to do something that could get him killed.
And if it doesn't get him killed, it could ruin his reputation.
She doesn't care.
You see, that's why
Love, according to 1 Corinthians 13, doesn't seek its own.
It's all about the truth.
Love is never going to ask you to do something that contradicts the will of God, especially you young ladies.
You need to know that.
Some young man tells you, you know that he loves you and that your God's will for his life, but he's asking you to do things that contradict what God has clearly said that young man does not love you.
He simply wanting to use you.
Okay?
Now, the world pretends to be your friend.
It does.
It pretends to be your friend.
Just let the prodigal son remember him.
He had all those friends, but once they got everything out of him that they could get, they left him.
The world wants to use you for its own pleasure, for its own gain.
And that's that's it.
Then there's something here that I think is very important that I wrote down and I want to read it to you word for word.
The world only wants to use you for its own pleasure or to own gain or the world wants to turn you away from God.
Why?
Now listen very carefully and we'll teach you something that if you can learn this it'll expose a lot of error because the world wants to turn you away from God
Maybe sinful friends want to turn you away from God because criminality loves companionship.
What do I mean by that?
The more people the world can get to join it in its rebellion against God, the more it can quiet its own conscience and feel better about itself.
Now, you have someone, let's say that
It's not a Christian and they, they really delight in wickedness.
Maybe a certain specific wickedness and they know it's wrong, but they want it.
And their conscience is screaming at them that what they want is wrong.
It's screaming at them.
What's the best way to quiet your conscience to get as many people as possible doing it with you?
so that you can affirm one another that what you're doing is not really wrong.
How could it be wrong?
Because so many people are doing it.
Do you see?
I have seen this so often in all kinds of things, both political and social and individual religious, people wanting to do something that is a great deviation from God's word.
And when they do it alone, their conscience is eating them alive.
But if they can get other people to participate, they're conscience.
It doesn't quiet down totally, but it is soothing to the conscience.
Okay?
Very important truth here.
Um, then the world hides its true intent like the devil.
She comes out, she's pretending that she loves this guy, but actually just she just wants to use him.
And that's the same thing the devil did.
If you go back to Genesis chapter 3 verse 1, and listen to what I wrote here, the devil acted like he was concerned for the well-being of Adam and Eve to protect them from God's tyrannical rules.
He's saying, I want you to just look at this and how clever, wickedly clever he is.
So God tells Adam and Eve, you can eat from
Every tree in the garden who who made the garden God did did Adam and eat no So God is giving them everything in the garden to eat Then he tells them, you know, even the animals you're gonna rule over everything in this garden is for you There's just one tree that you shall not eat from and what does Satan do?
He comes and basically says, God didn't say that.
And then when that doesn't work as well, he says something like this.
He's insinuating, look how unfair God is that he won't let you eat from that tree.
He won't let you eat from that tree.
Cause if you eat from that tree, you'll be like him and he doesn't want anybody to be like him.
Do you see Satan comes in hiding his true intent.
What was his true intent to inflict?
as much sorrow upon God by marring God's creation, by turning the pinnacle of God's creation against him.
That's all he wanted.
He wanted to use Adam and Eve.
He hated them with every fiber of his being, if we could say such a thing.
But he's clever.
His true intent is to destroy them, but he makes them think
that he's actually protecting them from a tyrannical God.
And I wrote here, like the devil, the world will cast doubt on God's law saying that it is far too restrictive.
It's hurtful.
It's cramping your style.
It's a joy kill.
Are they will say God?
Did God really say that?
You see, that's what you need to understand.
How many times, when I was a brand new believer,
And I stopped doing so many things that were wrong and harmful that people would say to me, God is so restrictive.
Really.
He's going to give us a new heaven and new earth created for us.
And he's restrictive.
Just think about that.
And because he changes us and we are, uh,
non-possipakari, we cannot sin when we enter into heaven.
We're done with sin.
That means that we get every desire of our heart because it'll be impossible to desire something evil.
Do you see that?
Isn't that amazing?
And yet Satan will come and say, you know what?
You should turn from God.
This amazing
There has been times, no, I didn't hear a voice or anything, but just these insinuations, these thoughts.
You've served the Lord for 42 years.
What's it got you?
What, what, what, what?
Do you see?
He never, he never gives up.
And that's why we must always be on the Lord.
So the world is clever and it hides
It's true intent, okay?
That's enough for today.
And you need to be wise so that you can see through all these schemes of wicked individuals of the world collectively and of the devil.
All right?
Well, let's pray.
Father, thank you.
Thank you for your word that exposes the lies.
and helps us to walk in this world in a way that is pleasing to you.
Father, I ask your blessing upon these children and their parents, these young people and their parents.
In Jesus' name, amen.